The Joe Rogan experience. We took a break for off the road for four years.
And when we came back three years after a break to make a record,
it was like we had gain, we, we had gleaned a lot of ex of perspective,
you know,
mm-hmm <affirmative> and our conversations when we first started making this
record aside from like, uh,
watching the news and talking about that and laugh, making each other laugh and,
it was like, this band is something really special.
You know what I mean? The fact that we are sitting in this room, you know,
18 years after,
after starting this band and it working out and we're here,
we need to make sure that this band is always something that's fun and not a
burden and not stressful as little. It shouldn't be stressful. It should be fun.
It's rock and roll. You know what I mean? Yeah.
And I think that we've been spending the last year figuring out to make how to
make every decision. So that, that way, you know, so like first this show,
we were like, do you wanna do TV show this TV show? Like, no, we want do we,
we wanted to, I, we both watched Joe Rogan, listen to Joe Rogan. I,
I happened to watch it. Um,
what we wanna do Joe's podcast, you know what I mean? That's what we wanna do.
That's what's important to us. We don't wanna play Woodstock.
It's not important to us. It doesn't speak to us.
These are the things we wanna do.
And taking that type of position with the band and also looking at the,
the business side of it and being like, this is. This is ridiculous. You know,
what, what, what, what,
what this band should be giving to us is the ability to help other bands,
which is what we do all day long when we're not touring. I mean,
in the last five years, Dan's produce probably like 15 albums.
Uh, for other artists, I've done a handful of myself. He has a label,
puts out other people's music. There's a lot of work EV when we're not touring,
we're still working on other music.
And the craziest thing is this we've sold millions of records.
We've made between the two of us, something like 60 per plus albums.
When I'm finished a record, I'm really proud of.
And I sent it to Warner brothers. The last time I did that,
they didn't even respond to the email.
And when that, when that happens to you, you know what you want to do,
tell 'em to themselves. You know what I mean?
And right now we're in a situation where our record kind track's done, you know?
And I saw what happened to my uncle. Ralph, do you need a contract now, no, no,
it doesn't seem like you do. But what we need is we need, we need people to,
to work with people who understand that the black keys is,
is very important to us,
but it's also a vehicle that we can leverage to help our other artists when
we're producing.
And it's so infuriating to have been in this business
for 20 years and honestly understand the business better than most managers
and be treated like dog by this person that you've made millions of dollars for.
Do you know what I mean? Well, it doesn't make any.
Sense that you need anything like that.
All you need guys need to do is have studio fees.
Or if you have your own studio produce the music and then once people know your
is out. No, but.
It's different because check it's different. We don't need.
But if you take a new artist from Nashville, you say,
and you make a record for them, okay, okay. You, they need an agent. They need,
they, they need, they need, they need to go on tour. Right?
They need to do all the stuff that we did. But we, we were like, malnourished,
freaks. Right? Course we were, we were like losing money.
The whole time we were able to lose money because our, our, our,
my rent was $145. We started and we practiced in my basement and they,
and lived in his parents' house. We didn't have, we could,
we could make like $200 a month and be in the red or in the black. Wow.
<laugh> so, but no, no one else is like, that's not realistic. No. You know,
so if you really wanna, well, here's, what's real if you wanna start,
but if you wanna help, but why isn't it realistic? I mean, it's realistic.
Why is it more realistic?
Go get in $60,000 worth of debt and not be able to get a job. Well,
I'm just saying that most bands, aren't two pieces.
Most bands aren't like right. Human cockroaches.
Like <laugh> when we first started, Dan was like, Dan's like,
I need wton soup every day. That's what I need.
It's that's I need $3 and 50 cents. We go get a wton soup.
I needed a pack cigarettes. Wow. But yeah, you know,
so you do need some finance, but.
Listen, you, you, you have the answer right in front of you.
You're a great talker.
If you just developed a podcast where you played new music and then talk
the way you do now, it would be gigantic. Maybe I, if you just go on the road,
just do pat and Dan, you could call it pat and Dan on the,
and you guys just do it from your tour bus or wherever you just let him wind him
up, let him talk about things and then play music,
like music that you really enjoy. If someone like Spotify,
wouldn't jump on something like that. They'd be crazy. It's a great idea.
And you could use it as a platform to help artists avoid the system entirely.
I'm.
Thinking that might work, but also it would work. Man. If,
if we just tweeted mark Zuckerberg,
that we need 145 million <laugh> he'd probably do it.
Probably do it. It seems like a good deal.
If someone wanted to do something like that,
it's a great idea because you can use it to launch like,
like I've done with comics on this podcast. You find people that are funny.
Let it's not hard. Get a, get a group of people that are really interesting.
Keep the conversations going, keep more cool people coming in,
and then you can use that to help other cool people and let everybody know you
could do it through your social media. You do it through a podcast.
And of course you,
you guys are still gonna do the same stuff you're already doing with producing
people and them out,
but you definitely could have your own distribution network,
but be ethical free or ethical. Quandri's free.
Like you don't have to think about it. You just give it to him for free.
You just do it as a podcast to broadcast him, Hey, check out this band.
I love this. I love this song. Play it. Bam. Would, that would help.
A lot with like exposure to new new music. Yeah. But I mean, I, I think,
I guess what I'm saying is, uh.
They're gonna need an agent into bookshels. Well.
Yeah, but I'm saying, but I do think it is what I'm saying. The music industry,
what is actually, what, something that I think that, um,
I think we're trying to figure out now is basically how to actually really work
again, truly independently. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> where it is something that we can figure out a way to actually do
the things we're passionate about, which is a lot of it is making records and,
and, and how, how opening, uh, and to even to make a record and impress it.
Cause, you know, it's like, it's at least 10, $10,000, you know what I mean?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so I guess what I was trying to say was like,
you'd expect that someone would look at your work and respect it enough to kind
of step in and help out,
cuz it's not like you're asking for millions of dollars a year to,
to finance some you're asking for like a couple hundred grand. Um,
but that's the problem with the music industry is that,
so is that certain labels are, are willing to give like,
uh, a SoundCloud rapper, like 15 million, you know,
but then they look at a band and they can't quantify their metrics.
Like maybe the black keys or, or who ever. And they, they don't give us.
That I well, help me out with this. Cause I don't understand it.
What do they provide? What, what, what is a record company.
At provide at this point, at this point to us, uh, physical distribution,
which is something that we.
Physical distribution of, of like of.
Vinyl LP.
Right? That's crazy though. How much is that? Yeah.
But I mean, rape, there are a lot of people buying though. No, no, no. I mean,
for us really, it, it isn't, it isn't tons. OR's some marketing,
there's some stuff like that. But honestly, I mean, we,
we get more from like a live nation, probably mm-hmm <affirmative>.
You know what I mean? So they, what does a record company do then?
Like if you're a young artist, they get you, do, they scare.
You distributed, do they scare you? You,
they scare you into handing over the that they need.
And then they sign you to a long term contract. Is that how it works?
And then they pray, you have a hit, they pray, you have a hit.
And if you do and you wanna leave, then you're.
And then if you don't, they, if they don't think so, and they think they,
you wanna leave and you got two records left,
they shove that record until you go with another one. Yeah. That's what they do.
It just doesn't seem, dude, we had this guy, it's a legacy.
Check, check this out.
We had this dude who was president of a label at one point,
it got back to me that he was taking credit for our success.
He wasn't even around when we broke, you know what I mean?
And the credit he was taking was the most genius credit. This is how,
this is how smart these people are, is like he said, yeah, man. You know,
I think I really, I really take a lot of pride in that band, uh,
and really help them a lot by just staying outta the way. Ooh.
He didn't even write a check for, uh, tour support or no promotion.
He's taking credit cuz he was smart enough not to it up. <laugh> know. I mean,
it's like I take personal credit,
like at bojangs chicken for them being successful or, or the new, uh, the new,
uh, the new, uh, Popeye's chicken sandwich. I take a lot of new,
I think a lot of credit.
I take a lot of credit though in that chicken sandwich man,
because I didn't buy one. I didn't it up. I didn't like put the wrong post up,
but.
That's a way better attitude of least a working attitude.
Then the guy from Pepperton who wants to with a high hat.
<laugh> wouldn't you prefer that guy who just gets the outta of the way.
I would say I'll take that guy off all day long. I.
If those are the two options then yeah, yeah. Absolutelyely all.
Day. I would say. I mean, is he taking credit for it or is he just,
he's kind of bragging that he works with you.
He can't be taking credit for that. There's a little credit,
but I think a little bit of credit, a little bit of credit,
a little annoying to you.
Dude. There's a lot of credit that gets taken for a lot of. <laugh>.
Dude, it seems like a frustrating and infuriating business and I' glad,
I'm glad I don't have to participate in <laugh> to as comics.
There's no business. We, we.
We've like, we're like in the top 0.0, zero,
1% of this and still annoying every single day.
It's like it's the, the trick to the music industry is to,
is to it's because if you really love music,
like the way that Dan and I do where it is,
the Mo still the thing that we're most passionate about, you know what I mean?
Like I love music. I only think about music,
listen to it all day,
but yet you have to find that fine line where like you don't win.
Like you make a record that you're really proud of and no one hears it.
And no one that works with you even responds to an email about it.
You have to find that space where you don't want to kill everybody.
You know what I mean? And you still wanna go make another record and.
Do you need to be connected to someone like this though? Does this,
is this a valuable thing in your world?
What to have this record company? No, no. I mean, no, no, not right.
So you can let all this go right? And don't do it anymore.
No, the trick is to find,
to find out how to still learn learning as the industry changes is to learn how
to pivot and make it, make it have' it make sense?
So the real problem is young talent. That's just getting started.
That gets signed when they don't really know they're worth yet.
And they don't know how the prob the.
Problem is is that no one is investing in real bands.
They're investing in like a songwriter.
They're investing in an artist that they, that was a puppet that like,
they can go and like, say this, person's gonna listen to this. Right? Do this.
It's like a pop machine. You know what.
I do you think that you could do it ethically that you could do it your way?
Look, I, I think, but you do you have the time for something like that? If.
I was to run a record label,
the main difference would be that I would look at it as I let's try to
break.
Even let's realize that some of the most important records here have never
sold a million copies.
Like the Ramones never sold a million copies of any of the records.
There may be the most influential punk band.
So what is let's, let's redefine what success is.
Success is getting behind art that we really are proud of and not, and,
and not getting trampled and not,
and getting the support that it needs. This all seems.
Doable. Yeah. But then you, what you're.
Describing with you seems doable, but then think about this.
This is the problem.
This is the crux is then you think about the Ramones and you realize this is a
band that toured in a van for 20 years. Do you wanna subject a band to that? No.
You want to be able to elevate that band to the point where they're actually
doing that comfortably. You know what I mean? And that's the hard part.
You know what I mean? Can you though.
I think that, would they be the same band? Not always. Right.
I think that you could, yes. It's.
Possible depend upon the individual dude. That's why Metallica.
Has these therapists band. They're trying to figure out <laugh> how to.
Figure out.
But don't you think that part of what you guys are is your background when you
were paying 125 bucks a month for rent, and you're a, you know,
you were living with your parents.
So this is part of why you guys were so good because you really wanted
it. You needed it. You had to get to a better place. We had no other option.
Yes. But I think there's, somethingmething, that's that, that flavors,
the music.
I think that's what we do. And we try to work with people.
We see that same quality in other people.
Hmm. So people have already, he been down that road, artists.
That I'm working with now, people like Yoola and people like D white and dude,
this really change all these people. They're just ornery and they want it.
You know, this is.
Begging for an organization. Like, you're your passion for this? I mean,
we're important. So we're, we're already.
Sort of doing.
It. We're dude,
you guys should have a radio station or a podcast that just about these,
these new albums and what's going on and what you're doing.
And I'm sure people would love it and just play music,
play the music that you guys are producing, play music that you enjoy,
that you find out about. I mean,
it seems like there's a real easy fix for this angst.
I don't think there is because it's been going on for <laugh>.
40 Years, but for you, there's a fix, at least there's a better path for some,
the, some people.
The angst is important because it is, uh, it's valid. I'm also,
we're also by the way, not that angsty, but when I do talk about the business,
I get a little angsty, but, um, <laugh>, I, I,
I pretty chill individual to be honest, most of the time, but when.
I, how many business is so much easier?
Well, you know, I mean.
We get to, we get to use that in our music.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure the drive.
Is like the thing it's like, you know, I, when I,
I found this photograph that I just hung up in my road case of Dan and I play
one of our first shows. I'm like, oh, this is important. I should be,
I should make sure I have this hung up because it just reminds me of all the
days that we spent,
like being miserable in a van because we love music so much.
We go play a show for nobody,
and maybe make enough money to get like a motel six room, share a bed,
get up the next day and go to waffle house <laugh> and keep doing it for you
years and years and years and years. But it does take that type of motivation.
And it's, it's frustrating when you do that.
And then you get to a point where it is the point that we're at and you
feel like you've gotten really good at what you do. And, uh,
you help another artist. And it's you realize that like, after all that work,
it's like the mythisyphus it's like, oh, after all that work,
it doesn't move the clock at all. Still these same, aren't,
aren't helping, you know.
I.